sql-statements: update `analyze` statement (#2918)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze-table.md

---
title: ANALYZE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of ANALYZE for the TiDB database.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/analyze-table/']
---

# ANALYZE

This statement updates the statistics that TiDB builds on tables and indexes. It is recommended to run `ANALYZE` after performing a large batch update or import of records, or when you notice that query execution plans are sub-optimal.

TiDB will also automatically update its statistics over time as it discovers that they are inconsistent with its own estimates.

> Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection (implemented using `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)

Reviewer: s/using/with|by

Reviewer 2: `using` can be more direct than `with` or `by`. For example, `The full collection is implemented using ...`.

> Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection (implemented using `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)
```

> At present, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection and incremental collection, which are realized through the `ANALYZE TABLE` and `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statements respectively. For detailed usage of these two statements, please refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md).
```

> Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection and (implemented using `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, please refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB collects statistical information in two ways: full collection (implemented using `ANALYZE TABLE` statement) and incremental collection (implemented using the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement). For detailed usage of these two statements, refer to [introduction to statistics](/statistics.md)
```

This statement is syntactically similar with MySQL. However, `ANALYZE TABLE` may take significantly longer to execute on TiDB, as internally it operates in a different manner.

> MySQL does not support the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement. TiDB supports incremental collection of statistics. For usage, please refer to [incremental collection document](/statistics.md#incremental-collection).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MySQL does not support the `ANALYZE INCREMENTAL TABLE` statement. TiDB supports incremental collection of statistics. For detailed usage, refer to [incremental collection](/statistics.md#incremental-collection).
```
